Why is it so important to help our listeners
grasp the meaning of our message?
The apostle Paul reasoned on the matter
at 1 Corinthians 14:9:
“Unless you with the tongue
“use speech that is easily understood,
“how will anyone know what is being said?
You will, in fact, be speaking into the air.”
In other words, we’d be wasting our time.
How, then, can we make our speech
understandable to others?
We must understand our topic well,
use simple expressions,
and explain unfamiliar terms.
In the following scenario,
identify the expressions
that are common to us
as Jehovah’s Witnesses
but that are not common
to people in general.
I’d like to give you
this invitation to our regional convention.
It’s a wonderful event organized each year
by “the faithful and discreet slave.”
It’s like our circuit assemblies but larger.
We enjoy it so much!
You can really sense God’s spirit there.
It really helps us to serve Jehovah
and to get
the best theocratic teaching there is.
Um . . . maybe not.
It doesn’t sound like it’s for me.
Oh, OK.
Maybe next time.
Will the householder
readily understand the expressions
“regional convention,”
“faithful and discreet slave,”
“circuit assembly,” “God’s spirit,”
or even “Jehovah”
and “theocratic teaching”?
Not likely.
Let’s give the brother another chance.
I’d like to give you this invitation
to a special event being held next month.
This year,
it’s going to be at the Event Center.
Everyone in the community is invited,
and it’s free of charge.
The program moves quickly
with talks, interviews, and short films.
This year, there’s a movie
that recounts the story of . . .
This time, the publisher kept it simple
and piqued the householder’s curiosity.
What about when we fulfill
a speaking assignment in the congregation?
We need to think in advance
about our audience.
If we have a conversation assignment
on the midweek meeting,
we should use expressions
that a householder will be familiar with.
If we’re giving a public talk,
it shouldn’t sound like a local needs part.
In the following example,
identify which kind of talk is being given
—a public talk or a local needs part.
“And this good news of the Kingdom
“will be preached in all the inhabited earth
for a witness to all the nations,
and then the end will come.”
Friends,
what does that verse mean to you personally?
Each of us should ask himself:
‘Am I having a full share
in this never-to-be-repeated work?
‘Can I arrange my circumstances
‘to serve as an auxiliary pioneer
‘or a regular pioneer?
‘Do I preach with a sense of urgency?
‘Am I doing my best
to make return visits
and conduct Bible studies?’
Did you identify it as a local needs part?
What were some clues?
The speaker used expressions
that aren’t always familiar to non-Witnesses:
“friends,” “auxiliary pioneer,”
“regular pioneer,” and “return visits.”
Now how might you apply Matthew 24:14
to an audience that includes non-Witnesses?
Let’s watch.
“And this good news of the Kingdom
“will be preached in all the inhabited earth
for a witness to all the nations,
and then the end will come.”
Speaking about God’s Kingdom
is one way that we can do good to others.
Even if we’ve just begun to learn
the truth from the Bible,
we can share what we’ve learned
with relatives or workmates.
In this way,
we may even help them
to gain everlasting life!
Be assured that Jehovah God
will bless and reward
the goodness you show to others.
By helping our listeners to grasp
the meaning of our message,
we’ll be a joy to listen to
and our audience will clearly understand
what they need to do.